>> This is "Nuevo."
We continue with
the investigation
of one of the most extraordinary
cases of all time--
a giant UFO that flew
over the Pentagon,
and had previously
flown over the Kremlin.
What are the implications?
Why is this story so important?
Here, we continue with
the investigation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia presents "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussán.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> A pyramid-shaped object over
one hundred meters in size,
that remains suspended over
the two most restricted places
on the planet, two places
from where a nuclear war could
start--
the Kremlin in Moscow and the
Pentagon in Washington, DC.
We continue with
the investigation.
>> After the extraordinary
events of December 19
in Washington, no media outlet
presented the facts or images.
No investigator of
the UFO phenomenon
attempted to find the
answers behind this case.
According to the "Nuevo"
investigation on December 18,
2018, a few hours after
President Donald Trump
signed a memorandum ordering the
creation of the United States
Space Combat Command,
it is evident
that it was a demonstration
and an advert.
>> What's that shit?
>> This was a very important
memorandum that was issued that
day in December 18 of 2018
where President Donald Trump
authorized the creation
of a Space Command,
which was basically set up as a
precursor to a Space Force that
is being legislated through
the US Congress at the moment.
So this was a critical
step in that process.
And by authorizing the
creation of Space Command back
in December 2018, what
happened was that basically
now the US was moving forward
in having a first tier
Space Command set up.
So that way all
activities occurring
in space with some kind of
military component to it
would be under the authority
of the Space Command.
And this is a very
important step,
because it meant that
the US military would now
have more authorization
to go and find out
what the major US companies
had been doing in space.
But this has been one of
the big problems, Jaime,
that in the United States,
you have many special access
programs.
These are programs that are
run by corporations on behalf
of the military, where the
military pays the corporations
money to do something.
But then the corporations
do things in space,
but the military doesn't
know what they're doing.
So the question of Space
Command provides the US military
a means of being able
to, for the first time,
control everything
that is happening
in space that involves the US
military or US corporations.
>> Classification process
of evidences of the UFO
extraterrestrial phenomenon
has had an important sequence
in the last three years,
as we will see next,
especially in the United States,
where the Pentagon has started
accepting that they are
investigating the phenomenon.
2016, the then candidate for the
presidency of the United States
Hillary Clinton and her
campaign manager John Podesta
were constantly
talking, using the words
"anomalous aerial phenomenon,"
"unidentified object,"
repeating it several times
in the interviews that
touched the topic.
This showed us that
there was an agreed plan
with the authorities
of the Pentagon.
May 31, 2017, the North
American businessman
and NASA partner
Robert Bigelow stated
in an interview on the
program "60 Minutes"
that he is completely convinced
that aliens have visited Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Is it risky for
you to say, you know,
in public that you believe in--
>> I don't give a damn.
>> --UFOs and aliens?
>> I don't care.
>> You don't worry that
some people will say,
did you hear that guy?
He sounds like he's crazy.
>> I don't care.
>> Why not?
>> It's not going to
make a difference.
It's not going to change
reality of what I know.
>> Do you also believe that
UFOs have come to Earth?
>> There has been and
is an existing presence,
an ET presence.
I spent millions and millions--
I probably spent more as
an individual than anybody
else United States has
ever spent on this subject.
>> Nevada State
Senator Harry Reid,
interviewing journalist
George Knapp,
explains that all of
this cannot be denied.
>> You cannot just hide your
head and say it doesn't--
these things aren't happening.
We have military
installations where
hundreds and hundreds
of people were there,
seeing these things.
>> In recent months, the United
States government's policy,
especially the Navy, the
most involved institution
in the investigation of the
unidentified aerial phenomenon
has changed.
It has not only allowed
its pilots greater freedom
to report encounters
with flying objects,
but that it has
accepted that it is
a phenomenon of unknown origin.
The senators of the
Intelligence Committee
have received information
about inexplicable events
in conventional terms.
April 25, 2019, the United
States Navy announced
that it was developing
new guidelines on how
its personnel should report
and catalog sightings off
on unidentified
aerial phenomena--
that is, UFOs.
The move was taken in
response to incidents
in which service
members reported
unknown aircraft in the vicinity
of the protected airspace.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
However, Joe
Gradisher, a spokesman
for the Office of the Deputy
Chief of Naval Operations
for the Information War, said
they would not be made public.
They would fall
into the category
of "insider" and
"classified information"
so that military aviation
security organizations can
preserve prioritization,
and free and honest debate
about security among air crews.
The Navy's recent decision
to draft formal guidelines
for pilots to report encounters
with unexplained aerial
phenomena comes after
the Pentagon officially
confirmed in 2017 the existence
of the Advanced Aviation Threat
Identification Program, AATIP.
It continues.
The study and investigation
of extraterrestrial ships
previously, the Pentagon had
ensured that the initiative
was closed in 2012.
However, they lied.
Nick Pope, who secretly
investigated UFOs
for the British government
during the 1990s,
called the Defense
Department's comments
a "bumbling revelation."
May 26, 2019, historical new is
given as the "New York Times"
newspaper publishes testimonies
from the United States Navy
which have witnessed
the constant presence
of unidentified flying objects.
The declassified
reports confirmed
that from November
2014 to March 2015,
practically every
day they encountered
these unknown objects
on their flights.
This was confirmed by
Lieutenant Ryan Graves--
"Keeping a plane in the air
requires a significant amount
of energy."
These objects remained there
12 continuous hours in the sky.
They moved "against the wind."
And we "saw them almost
daily from the summer of 2014
to" the month of "March 2015,"
on the East Coast of the United
States.
Navy pilots informed
their superiors
that the object had
no visible engines
or exhaust columns observed
in the infrared spectrum,
but that they could reach
9,000 meters in altitude
in hypersonic speeds.
Lieutenant Ryan Graves, a
10-year experienced Navy F/A-18
Super Hornet pilot, reported
that the objects were
in the sky all day, and made
his report to the Pentagon
and Congress.
At the end of 2014,
there was a report
of a Super Hornet
plane's pilot that
had an approach with an
unidentified flying object,
almost a collision.
The incident was so serious
that an Aviation Safety
Report was filed.
Lieutenant Graves said
some of these encounters
were videotaped from the planes
that followed the object,
and are gradually
being declassified.
So far there are only
three recordings recently
percentage of public
opinion by the Pentagon
through the program called
"Advanced Aerospace Threat
Identification Program,"
where these subjects can
be clearly seen.
Finally, Lieutenant Graves
and four other Navy pilots
told the "New York
Times" that they
saw the objects in 2014 and
2015 in training maneuvers
from Virginia to Florida
from the aircraft carrier
Theodore Roosevelt. All this
has caused the Navy to create
a classified guide.
There is a protocol on how to
report what the military calls
"inexplicable aerial
phenomena," commonly known
among the civilian population as
"unidentified flying objects."
May 28, 2019, the
prestigious newspaper
"The Washington Post" publishes
that UFOs exist, and we'll
need to accept to that fact.
UFOs are not the same as
extraterrestrial life.
But we should start thinking
about that possibility.
And they are declassifying
little by little.
So far there are only three
recordings recently it
to public opinion
by the Pentagon
through the so-called "Advanced
Aerospace Threat Identification
Program," where these objects
can be seen with great clarity.
May 31, 2019, on television,
the History Channel began
presenting the series
"Unidentified,"
where it has shown the United
States Congress on record--
this means "officially."
This television show
had an encounter
with the pilots Captain David
Fravor of the USS Nimitz
and a pilot named "Wee
Man," who, when interviewed,
shared all their experience with
unidentified flying objects.
This favorably impressed
high-ranking figures,
both military and government
of the United States,
and the Congress.
After this encounter, it is that
the United States Navy makes
the announcement that the pilots
must report to their sightings
officially, but not publicly--
only report to their
superiors the encounters
that are generated in flight.
Now we begin to understand,
thanks to this TV show,
how the pieces of these
huge puzzles are moving.
This came shortly
before the news came out
that the pilots gave
their official testimonies
to the most important newspapers
in the US, such as the "New
York Times," the "Washington
Post," and others
around the world later,
where it would be disclosed
at this important event.
It was also revealed how
musician Tom DeLonge related
to senior government
and military officials
for the investigation
of the UFO phenomenon.
How is it that he manages
to open and establish
contacts with important
figures, such as John
Podesta, and high-ranking
personnel within the Pentagon,
as well as with Chris Mellon, a
member of military intelligence
who handles the most
important budgets
of secret military projects
in the United States?
And it has served as a contact
between the intelligence
service and the Pentagon.
Now, from a civil
perspective, he
is collaborating
in all the research
so that the great opening
of the phenomenon occurs.
Undoubtedly, key moments
are being experienced
in the acceptance
of this phenomenon
as never before in history.
An opening like
this had been given
from the top bureaucratic
and military spheres
of the most powerful
nation in the world.
What they insisted
so much on denying,
today occupies a
preponderant place
on the officials'
agenda of who, according
to the opinion of
the specialists,
are moving ahead with
opening up to the issue
of the extraterrestrial
visit to our world
and sensitizing public
opinion before an imminent
demonstration on the part of
the visitors that will not
leave doubt that we
have never been alone--
[OVERLAYING RADIO CHATTER]
>> [INAUDIBLE] smoking target?
>> No, I took an [INAUDIBLE].
>> Oh, OK.
>> Oh, my gosh, dude.
>> Wow, [INAUDIBLE].
[LAUGHS]
>> --meaning that the
history of the phenomenon
of the unidentified has changed.
The events that occurred in
the Pentagon and the Kremlin
could have influenced.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
September 20, 2019, Navy
spokesman Joseph Gradisher
confirmed to various
media outlets
that the three videos
obtained by fighter jets
from the United States
in 2004 and 2015
are 100% real
recordings, meaning
that, with this declaration, the
possibility of any manipulation
is totally ruled out.
Gradisher also said
the videos were not
intended to be made public.
The news in which they accept
the reality of the existence
of the UFO phenomenon
is having a great impact
on all levels of society, and
in the main bureaucratic and
military spheres
around the world.
The statement, which has been
replicated by the mainstream
media in the US, is the
result of a story that
began to be written
on December 16, 2017
when the "New York
Times" revealed,
in a very complete journalistic
report, the existence
of the so-called
Advanced Identification
Program for Aerospace
Threats that
had an assigned
budget of $22 million,
as was kept absolutely secret.
The project started on the fifth
floor in the Pentagon ring.
The former intelligence
officer named
Luis Elizondo was the director
of this program that analyzed
and followed up on reports
from the United States Navy
officers and pilots, openly
acknowledging that UFOs
are under investigation--
>> The videos were released
by the Department of Defense.
The Department of made the
decision to release them.
>> Someone gave
them a green light.
>> Absolutely, and it wasn't me.
>> --releasing two recordings
through the Defense
Department's infrared system
showing unidentified flying
objects that were
followed by fighter jets.
Luis Elizondo, in October
2017, resigned from the project
and the Armed Forces because he
considered that not enough was
being done to get to the
truth behind all this,
citing code name "Flir1
'Tic-Tac.'" Captain David
Fravor was commissioned to chase
an unidentified flying object
that is diving into the ocean
and one more UFO that is
approaching to the
military aircraft.
This is the extraordinary
recording obtained on
November 14, 2004, where
the aircraft carrier Nimitz,
from where two planes took
off to chase an object that
was detected by radar systems.
Of these multiple encounters
by military aircraft carrier
Nimitz, as well as flight
controllers and technical
personnel, four of them openly
discussed their encounters with
unidentified flying objects in
the recent nimitzencounters.com
presentation--
Kevin Day, air
traffic controller
and interceptor of the
USS Princeton in 2004;
Gary Voorhis, Fire Controlman
on the USS Princeton;
Patrick Hughes, Aviation
Technician on the USS Nimitz;
Jason Turner, Deputy Medical
Officer on USS Princeton--
who were involved,
along with the personnel
of these warships, in
the detection and pursuit
of unidentified
flying objects, which
were detected by powerful radar
aboard the USS Princeton, whose
mission was to protect the
airspace around the USS Nimitz
off the coast of San
Diego, California.
Near San Clemente Island, five
to 10 unidentified radar echoes
were detected, appearing
and disappearing
on screens at an altitude
of more than 8,500 meters.
For two days, these subjects
appeared in formation
on the radars.
The objects did not
present any information
from the normal
transponder of an airplane.
At times, objects
descended from space
into the area of the
Northern Pacific Coast,
off the coast of California.
Within seconds, objects
descended at hypersonic speed.
This news would be the tip of
the iceberg, which gradually
began to reveal the framework
of a complex story in which
characters such as Tom DeLonge
and his academy to the stars
were involved, to which Mr. Luis
Elizondo who, for many years,
has spearheaded the top secret
program, Advanced Aerospace
Threat Identification Program.
However, according to
specialists' opinion
on the subject, it
can be seen very dimly
that they are accepting
that this technology far
exceeds them, and that it pales
when presented by our combat
aircraft.
Joseph Gradisher, a spokesman
for the United States Navy,
for the first time confirmed
the authenticity of documents
on the website called
"The Black Vault,"
dedicated to collecting
information that the US
government declassifies.
Likewise, in an interview
with "Time" magazine,
he stated that these are
unidentified aerial phenomena,
which represent a danger
to the safety of pilots
and also a security
problem for operations.
The Navy's investigating the
incursions seen in the three
declassified videos, adding that
the sightings occur frequently.
Jan Harzan, who
designed and planned
the most veteran organization
in the world dedicated
to the investigation of the UFO
extraterrestrial phenomenon,
the Mutual UFO Network,
whose acronym in English
is MUFON in the
United States, told us
about the most recent
declassification
and what this implies.
>> I think disclosure
happened on December 16,
2017 when the "New York Times"
had a front page article
declaring that the Pentagon
had a secret UFO program.
If there are people
waiting, they're
waiting for confirmation.
The waiting for the president
to step to the podium to say,
UFOs are here.
They're real.
I don't think
that'll ever happen.
They're waiting for
NASA to announce
that they found life on Mars,
or some other planet or moon.
That could happen very soon.
They're looking
for SETI to declare
they found a signal from some
civilization billions years
away.
That could happen.
There's a lot of ways
that confirmation could
happen for various people.
But I think unless
you come face-to-face
with one of these craft yourself
and/or one of these beings,
for most people, they
want to sit and wait.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> At the conclusion
of this investigation,
the reasons that motivated
this demonstration are evident.
Both the Kremlin
and the Pentagon
avoided a confrontation
with these intelligences.
A combat over the
skies of Washington
would have exposed the
presence of other intelligences
in our world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I think when we look at that
tetrahedron over the Pentagon
that happened
basically the night--
that very night that
the memorandum came out,
I mean, you know,
we can look at that
and say, well, this does
look like a warning to me.
I mean, it's a one mile--
estimated to be one
mile in diameter,
or its vertices
are one mile apart.
And this is something
that looks threatening.
And it was just hovered over
the Pentagon for several hours,
and was witnessed
by multiple people,
and photographed, and videotape.
And when I look
at that, it seems
to be some kind of a warning.
You know, and then
of course, what
makes it even more
interesting is the connection
to that 2009 incident over the
Kremlin where you actually have
what looked like pretty much
the same tetrahedron pyramid
hovering over the Kremlin for--
for hours.
Even during the day, people
were seeing this thing
during the day.
So this was, I think,
a kind of demonstration
of power by some force,
some off-planet force that
has much more advanced
technology than anything
possessed by the Kremlin
or by the Pentagon,
and really basically laying
down some kind of threat,
some kind of ultimatum,
something about the US
and Russia doing things
in a certain way.
>> It is incomprehensible how
such an important event like
this has been
ignored by the media,
investigators of
the UFO phenomenon,
and the Pentagon
authorities themselves.
>> It's very interesting that
there's been very little media
coverage of the tetrahedron
pyramid over the Pentagon
in 2018.
I mean, you struggle to find
any kind of media reports
about this.
And, of course, the military
hasn't released anything
about the story.
So, to me, this is
almost like an attempt
to maybe smother the issue,
just kind of ignore it, and not
have any kind of
attention placed on it.
Because whether
that was, whoever
was behind that mile-wide
tetrahedron over the Pentagon,
whoever was behind that has
really advanced technology.
And that is far in
excess of anything
that the US military
has at this point.
So I think this is something
that the Pentagon didn't
want the public to know
about because it is something
that could scare people.
And the Pentagon don't want to
scare people about technologies
that they don't know about,
that the US military would
have a lot of trouble matching.
>> It was possible to get to
know this extraordinary events
thanks to the internet.
It is no longer possible
to prevent citizens
from having access
to information.
In other times, an
event of this nature
would not have been known
to the civilian population.
>> The internet
has many problems.
There is a lot of
nonsense about UFOs on it.
You have to separate the
signal from the noise,
get the good cases,
and separate them
from all the bad cases, and
the rumors, and so forth.
But the internet does allow
people all over the planet
to communicate openly about
UFOs, where the major news
organizations, in my country
and many other countries,
will not cover the story.
So people everywhere have
bypassed the official news
and said, we're going
to talk about this,
whether you want to
talk about it or not.
And so they're openly
discussing, yes,
UFO activity at
nuclear weapons sites
and other types
of UFO incidents.
>> Since 1947, the UFO
phenomenon has been considered
a secret of national
security in the US.
Does that have something to do
with the attitude of the media?
It means, OK, you cover the
event because it happened.
But then you don't insist?
You don't go deeper?
You just let it go?
>> I think that is
certainly part of it.
There were hearings in
the United States Senate
in 1975 called the "Church
Committee Hearings" in which it
came out and publicly became
known that the CIA had
infiltrated many of the media
organizations in my country,
including the "New York
Times," "Time" magazine,
"CBS News" were
the ones that were
named in these panels hearings.
Clearly, what you had is
cooperation between the news
organizations and the CIA
on national security issues.
There was no explicit mention
of UFOs in these hearings.
But what you have is,
again, this situation
where the government is saying
to the mainstream media,
the big, big players,
the "New York Times,"
the "Washington Post,"
this is national security.
So very rarely do you
find stories about UFOs.
And in 1979, a rare
exception of that happened.
In January of '79, the
"Washington Post"--
the "Washington Post"--
on its front page
had a story about UFOs hovering
above nuclear missile sites.
That is the last story that has
taken place and been published
in the "Washington Post"
about UFOs hovering over
nuclear weapons, even though--
>> Edgar Mitchell, the sixth
man to walk on the moon,
died on February 4, 2016.
But he left us a
message that takes
a special relevance in the
face of the latest events.
>> I have been totally opposed
to weapons in space since
the very beginning.
Now, we do use observation
platforms in space,
but what I mean is
active weaponry.
I think that active
weaponry in space
is a sure way to begin war.
Because what the
civilized nation
is going to allow a
weapon orbiting overhead?
It could cause destruction
at a moment's notice.
The first thing they're
going to do is shoot it down.
So you're putting a hair
trigger on confrontation,
and in particular, a
nuclear confrontation when
you have weapons in space.
So it's vital that the
nations of the world
agree not to have
weapons in space,
and that the United Nations
be the lead, take the lead,
and keeping this
from happening, if we
want to survive, to
ensure the survival
of our planetary civilization.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This story will
remain for history.
The facts are real.
The witnesses are authentic.
The images are true.
And it will surely
happen again very soon.
A demonstration
like this will not
take place at dawn,
but in broad daylight,
in front of thousands or
possibly millions of people,
on television.
We are living through
extraordinary times.
Very soon the discovery
of life on Mars
will be announced, and
later on, in other worlds
it is only a matter of time.
I am Jaime Maussán, and I will
see you in the next episode
of "Nuevo."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Gaia-presented "Nuevo"
with Jaime Maussán.
[MUSIC PLAYING]